# Chapter 16 challenges

All three problems in this chapter's challenge can be answered with the word "recursion", and described well by the illustrations here: https://www.json.org/

Seriously, what a great page. It made a great impression on me at my first internship. Helped me think data-first.

In interpreter terms, it effectively means baking some lexing rules into the parser, or even folding them together, depending on the complexity of the language being described.

## Problem 1

> How do you do string interpolation?

**Answer:** recursion and increasingly narrow rules.

Encountering `"` kicks off string scanning.
If the string scanner encounters `${`, it defers control to an expression scanner. Since expressions only conditionally consumes `}`, the string scanner can expect it once the expression scanner sees one in an acceptable position for termination and releases control.

But it gets more complicated. Expressions _do_ start caring about blocks when lambdas come into play. The impact of this complexity can be felt in JS with string templates, where the language can get much fussier than usual very quickly, since the line between expressions and statements is so blurry when `;`, `{` and `}` get involved.

## Problem 2

> Several languages use angle brackets for generics and also have a >> right shift operator. This led to a classic problem in early versions of C++: ...

**Same deal.** And we're already doing this to some extent when we parse identifiers and literals. Non-keywords, basically. We're just stopping at a very shallow depth.

In the example, the scanning context should be type space, which has no special use for `>>`.

## Problem 3

> Contextual keywords.

**To implement: same deal again, except that scanners now need parameters.**

-   `get` and `set` in C# and Typescript
-   `require` and `module` in TS... sort of. It's a weird case. Similar to `_` in Scala.
-   primitive type names in many languages.
