# Chapter 19 challenges

## Challenge 1

> Each string requires two separate dynamic allocations—one for the ObjString and a second for the character array. Accessing the characters from a value requires two pointer indirections, which can be bad for performance. A more efficient solution relies on a technique called flexible array members. Use that to store the ObjString and its character array in a single contiguous allocation.

I'm not writing in C!

## Challenge 2

I was about to, and then I realised what a pain it would be making up for losing `Copy` on `Value` or tying its lifetime to the VM.

The latter is the best approach and I do want to do it at some point, but I can't face it right now.

But the plan was just to represent it on the typesystem internally within `Value`, and then write some general access helpers for these optimisations around constants.

## Challenge 3

> If Lox was your language, what would you have it do when a user tries to use + with one string operand and the other some other type? Justify your choice. What do other languages do?

!!!!

I want implicit coercion. SAFE implicit coercion. And that means no dynamic types. But there are ergonomic (and let's be real, C-like) strongly-typed languages out there which make this _sort_ of thing safe.

I say _sort_, because Typescript for instance (which actually does a lot of things well) permits garbage like this:

```typescript
"asd" + { a: 4 };
```

That's bad enough, but they get worse. It permits it while still accepting Javascript's default `String.prototype.toString()` implementation:

```typescript
"[object Object]";
```

Haskell models this well. "Implement `class Show`? Cool". Rust makes the same design more accessible via `trait Display`, but is held back a little in the ergonomics department by its low-level `String` handling (no `+` concat, etc).

All of this is to say: for an interpreted, garbage-collected language, I choose Rust's model with Typescript's syntax and Scala's operator power (if I can somehow curb the community's abuse of them).
